all right cool okay so recording so
welcome everyone to that first or to the
first as we reset the counter JSF EFS
core dev team weekly hang up the purpose
of this call or the reason why we are
bringing these calls back is so that we
can find we can understand where
everyone's minds are that we can
understand what are our priorities and
if we can adjust our priorities in and
then if I what what people are being
blocked on so that we can unblock them
faster one of the results of this call
is that also the community will be able
to understand what is being hacked like
while it's being developed so as it
happened in the past and like for those
of you that have joined like as far as
if you know last six months that ever
saw discounts working one of the things
that happen like well one year ago was
that multiple contributors would join
for a couple of calls or maybe even a
week month and they would help us
achieve certain goal by joining our
sprints and then they will just like
take off it like go on with their lives
and icon our projects and that was
because we had these moments to sync up
to identify the priorities we find the
problems and so on and so today because
it's the first will do just like a
little warm-up to say make sure that
everyone understands what are our
expectations and also that we share what
they expect to get from this call but in
the future in the future what I expect
is that this call to be very fast paced
where everyone's like goes around and
like shares what they have accomplished
the week before and tells us it forms
the rest of the group what they want to
focus on the following week exactly
exactly
we we don't do it daily because it's
really expensive on people's time to do
a daily distributed stand up but we have
experimented with weekly and worked
pretty well in the past and yeah like we
can always adjust and I understand this
still works it's still the right pattern
and upgrade until I posted here
the link to the with the agenda
for today this is what I have in mind if
you if you have any questions or
anything you'd like to add please do so
by adding it to the each other and if
someone would like to volunteer to be
the note-taker for this call it would be
really much appreciated with someone
like to or we can all right okay so okay
can we can we have someone that is
available to take notes just to make
sure that we have well okay I can try to
take notes and if I'm not fast enough to
take notes and speak I'll just check the
recording and write that so cool kukuku
so I could do okay all right so I kind
of already went through the first item
the agenda like what are the goals with
this call so far so good
like everyone everyone cool so the way
that I expect these calls to function is
again we do a run all updates everyone
says what they have accomplished last
week we just like we let people describe
what they got what and what they want to
work on next
after like everyone gets the chance to
share these three things we will make
sure like we all just like review it and
make sure that we all agree that those
things are the most important and we
have if we have time left we will just
go to the waffle board and identify
issues that are top priority that we
probably should be thinking about
but like no one is thinking about then
and just to give you like view into
what is our waffle board all right can
you everyone see the waffle board window
yeah okay cool so this part is everyone
familiar with the waffle board for Jesse
PFS can I see and this is the first time
you are looking at it okay I see some
people smiling so I guess it's the first
time is that am I reading it correctly
okay all right so perfect I just wanted
to make sure that people were familiar
with the waffle board and so let me
explain how we organize our issues in
the just a previous project we we have
five columns in box backlog ready in
progress and done all the issues all the
peers that get created to the project
and we are tracking initially we are
tracking every single repo on the just
because project so it's from just the
top level module and you can see there's
like a leaf stuff here there's no tea
formats there is ipfs leap your peers
are tracked here we peer to peer
instructor and on its own waffle board
and you can access it by replacing whip
it appear and well J asleep it appear
I'm not going to do that because the
waffle born dance and like I guess you
will see this now okay this is fast
because we have attached so many
reproves to one waffle board sometimes
you might experience a waffle board to
take a little bit of time to load and so
be careful with opening and closing off
work like once you load it you know and
just to keep it open and because all the
updates that follow will happen in real
time and you can see like the way she's
moving from these columns so everything
that gets open goes to inbox from the
inbox typically I do the work of
reviewing the issue and assigning things
like priority and you can see these
labels p1 - p2 - well there are others
it's like frumpy
before so p0 the most critical most
urgent - before last critical please
Arjun some of these issues get tagged
with difficulty when it is possible and
of course difficulty hard difficulty
easy difficulty but it is really just
like best guess for me and it is
basically my way of telling everyone
that is following the project hey there
is an issue that given the understanding
of the whole stack of ipfs should not
take you too much to figure out if it's
difficulty easy and my my expectation is
like if there is an issue with that
label I should take you less than a
morning like you should not be f2 like
here over 10 repos you should not have
to do like very complex setup stops it
should be something that is contained at
back in the West in like four hours you
should be able to tackle that issue I
understand what is the problem at hand
and tackle that issue there is a an
extra level that typically gets added to
these issues with the difficulty which
is out planted and help-wanted means
that the issue as in natural formation
or should there be in that information
for a contributor that is not familiar
with the project to understand what is
the real problem like to understand what
that issue is about and from that to
gather the rest of information he needs
to solve the issue if the issue is
outside with help-wanted then it means
that probably there's like information
that is not present there and you can
still try to solve it you can like be
brave and just like jump it in but it
might be harder so far so good I can
trying to like scroll through all the
phases just make sure everyone is still
following okay cool I see some smiles
sometimes up it's perfectly and so when
I receive issues on any box and you can
see there's like ten new issues that I
still haven't reviewed I tagged them I
move them to the ready column if they
are ready to be worked on if there is
some issue that you just like the body
of organic
he's dependent on something else like
that specification to be written like
something that basically requires a lot
of work from a lot of other people I put
it on the backlog so it's backlog is
kind of like things that are not really
ready to be worked on not ready to be
picked up I've been also putting the
issues with questions here because
typically issues that are questions I
give an answer or at someone in the
community gives an answer and then we
wait a little bit to see if that the
person had opened the issue as like is
successful at using that answer to solve
that problem and if it is if that
happens and because the issue if not we
keep like having a discussion but but
it's more like a slow paced issue like
so that it gets put in the back wall so
it doesn't consume our attention from
the ready color when it's on the ready
column you can see you have like 184
issues open ready to be consumed it
means like they're all this work is here
for people to do and no one is at this
moment in time working on it which is
the difference from the in progress
column in progress means that there is
some work that needs to be done and
there is a personal sign and that person
is currently focusing on that issue at
hand and so one of the things and this
is like a really important detail right
because it is not useful for the
community and for the team to see
someone tagged to like ten different
issues if they are different types of
work for example we see here the back
Victor has a bunch of issues that say
updating CI files but that is really
just like one thread of work so it is
okay for a template like a bunch of
issues because well like that thread of
work just requires them to mess with a
bunch of repos but if you have multiple
things that you are talking like a
feature or a bug fix and if you have
multiple of those in being progress
column probably means that a cure
attention is being spread too thin over
multiple things and and you are locking
that work from being worked by someone
else so the good practice the best
practice here is like if you are working
on for example bit swap and you have
three more issues DHT and relay you
should move those issues to the ready
column so that someone else can pick it
up while you focus on the bits one make
sense by the way feel free to interrupt
me and ask questions or I make
suggestions once an issue is done so and
that means like issue is closed or a
pure request is merged the waffle board
moves it automatically to the down
column and like they stay here for a
week so after a week of them being done
they disappear from the downtown and so
so yeah we can always accommodate any
point in time but the fact that like
it's a week pace makes it really useful
for us to come back like in the next
weekly call and I just review everything
that was done everything it was worth
done it is a good way for us to worry
what was achieved and and if there was
some piece of work that was done that
now unblocks me until overall like this
is a pretty useful tool really good way
to see the work that is available you
can use filters one of my best feel like
my favorite filters is really just going
here and putting the p0 label and I see
you can see there's like a lot of stuff
that is critical now for the well the
project and yeah there's a lot of set
that need people to to work on it of
course like there might be some issues
that are not your domain expertise or
that like you are already so in so deep
in something else that like shifting
your focus would actually just create
more noise so unless there is some
critical dependencies on some event some
mouse on it we have to achieve that
these issues are required don't feel
that like you have to stop the world and
stop everything that you are doing - I
shifts to a completely different thread
just because an issue Easter that's
critical and yeah so for contributors
like for first-time contributors like a
good way to know how to help the project
is just like children my Help Wanted and
they're like seeing what is it all out
there for people to work on and so you
we can see that there's more than 100
issues available that have enough
information for someone from the
community to jump into the project and
start contributing with something
valuable I don't know if you'll get
asked a lot but I definitely get a lot
of questions like how can I help the
people's project until we created this
label system to how people see how they
can contribute all right okay so this
was a waffle board part is everyone
clear on how we organized work and how
we communicate to others what we are
working on so I see sometimes a cool any
questions so far
any comments could you send us a link to
the board
absolutely so let me put it here on Zoom
chat supposedly you know it's cool it is
also present on if you go to IPA first
just defense
one of the cool things well if you like
metrics like me one of the cool things
one gets from the waffle board is that
through photographs that is now loading
here okay there you go you can see the
amount of things that are operating on
the project I think it's pretty cool
like don't stress about it it's a
symmetric like the development steel
cool all right so the the next thing I
wanted to bring up there are no
questions about the waffle for the spare
programming sessions in the past
something that has worked pretty well
for knowledge transfer is when someone
is tackling some
and like there are there are things that
like you can definitely go and learn by
yourself and like read books and like
read papers and read specifications and
read the co-pays and like spend a lot of
hours and like you will eventually get
it for sure
but there are things that like bleep you
the pure design decisions or the how the
integration is done and so on that are
trapped still in our brains but it's a
little bit of tribal knowledge still and
so one thing that worked pretty well in
the past when ramping up new people to
the project is just like schedule time
to do like a zoom call and like screen
share and just like tackle issues
together like we of course it's hard
because like we are all distributed it
everyone has different time schedules
but like when we get a chance like spent
30 minutes or 60 minutes talking to a
problem together there is a lot of ideas
a lot of design decisions a lot of
knowledge that the other person will
learn just from the discussion right
it's not that it doesn't mean
necessarily that we prepare a lecture to
explain how multiplexing only
peer-to-peer words but it's more okay
there's a multiplexing issue but you dig
through the curves and like as one
person is helping the other debug there
is a lot of pieces of information or
nuggets that get transmitted and then
this other person also learns how to
like think or reason about the
architecture of the stack of leapreader
beer
and so it wasn't clear that these
resources available in the past but I
just want to make sure that everyone
understands like I will put my calendly
gling here which is P all the media's
calendly link and this is like a tool
that you can use to request my time to
book something on my calendar even that
there is availability that there is an
interception between both availabilities
and if people that are working on a
project also wants to share a similar
tool which can be candle tellingly or
doodle or even issue on to i have office
hours that other people can join and i
ask you questions i think it'll be very
useful to to add this knowledge transfer
happen
cool yeah cool cool so so so again this
is just like a thing that it's out there
it has worked very well in the past you
don't have to use it but if you are
plucked on something
what's iconic together typically it's a
lot more fun anyway discover a lot on
yourselves
all right cool so this was the warm-up
section of today's call we have nine
minutes left I hope that everyone and
caught up to speed on how we track work
on the project and so let's do the
actual stand up sounds good
cool cool so L sub screen share for now
so that I can see everyone's face oh so
much weather and the proposal on how to
present this information is very simple
we go one by one and I'll put here my
name and we can copy the bullet islands
so so okay I'm just just like writing so
that you can see what I was thinking oh
no what can work and and now I just have
to answer these questions right and by
answering these questions hopefully
everyone gets a clearer picture so from
my end this is my stand up what I have
accomplished last week like I've been
trying to just like go through all my
notifications backlog and I answered all
the questions there are out there issues
and pull requests
I have merged or reviewed and merged a
ton of those that involve other work
like that be feschi and IP FSG CTL and
interruptus i've basically spent a lot
of time helping other people I can block
their current work threads the I there
is nothing that I'm blocked right now
and the thing that I think that it's
more important for me to focus on for
this week is refactoring late appear so
that we can then remove the centralized
render
by using whippy-tippy nodes as the
connections there is an issue to try to
that I'll tie myself to that issue and
the only in terms of this week the only
limitation in terms of my time is that
I'm going to fly to Brussels to 10,000
Thursday so my time is not fully
available this week by the way if you
are trying to find some let me know but
that's a separate thread like tell me on
IRC and yeah that's a day for me
you have any questions feel free to ask
now or watch cool ok
Dimitri the other grants
cool alright so last week I guess I
worked on continued working on on I
profess the CTL and in drug tests and
trying to get stupid finally that be
included and down and tested and eight
no blockers well there was a blogger
with but I think we figured out it was
basically champions with the being one
of those addict was kind of good
something but that's it it's kind of
like her anymore the rest of the
questions and I lost the other questions
the the next one is out what do you feel
it's more most important for you to work
this week right okay so yeah I guess it
is wrapping up everything straight could
relate at the time it's gonna be it's
gonna be done in the next couple of days
I believe it's not today and it's ready
in the next several days and then from
there I cannot really look into what
else do I have a site right now but I
will do that yeah I will pick the next
priority ID for me sweet thank you so
there was like some parts where like
your connection cut a little bit did you
say you are going to tackle setup it's
this week and it should be finished this
week was it so yeah the plan was to get
it done today but with a little bit with
some of the CIA shoes and some other
things
who pulled it by the end of the day I
both happen and with the dogs that are I
think that's the only thing that's
outstanding daily and just the tests
getting all the sea ice cream
and we were almost there in terms of G
is sweet awesome thank you awesome what
their decided to have secret and to
check one of the two items for browser
connectivity alright thank you so much
Richard your interconnects and by the
way I'm just like saying games as I see
them on screen on the keychain stop
which is basically allowing multiple key
issues basically I'm blocked right now
on trying to get one set of tests to run
its some interaction between IPS D IPS
and IPS API I really don't know what's
going on right now
I'll send Demetri a copy of what my
issues are maybe in help and next is
actually using the keychain to clip
messages and sign them yay it's only a
month with the ha alright so if I
understood correctly the work is almost
done there is some walkers in especially
testing like especially CI testing right
there's like some specific walkers on on
Windows stuff do you want to could you
post the issues to the few describe
those problems to these notes and and
then I see that you already have talked
with the mitri to follow up and to solve
those issues like if we could track them
so that's it we can also check and help
it will be helpful yeah I added a
comment in the pr last night you
probably
seen it yet we've got too much email uh
that describes the issue I'll mention
Dimitri on it too
okay sounds good awesome by the way
one quick question what is the status of
Windows like support I know that like
you did a ton of work and we got Jessica
first run on Windows but we haven't been
very successful to get the same results
on Ti is that something that is in
progress as well the only issue I know
of in the CI is killing processes is
that correct Dimitri because of the city
and we've been talking about the last
couple of days but I really haven't had
a chance to look at it because I'm
fighting these other issues on the
keychain okay okay so we need to fix the
signal ratio or probably just skip for
now and then follow up on Dimitri's
proposal to get some notes to work in
the windows in the same way that they're
working in Linux and Mac all right thank
you okay so we are one minute left from
the call our people okay spending our
three extra or like five extra minutes
today even it was the first Jared you
want to share nothing yeah okay sounds
good Johnny do you have anything that
you looked at just a brief s wise yeah
so I'm working on this project I PID
that I created interplanetary
identifiers for decentralized identities
so Court of goes along with Richards key
store key management so I actually wrote
it originally and go and so now I'm
actually rewriting it in in JavaScript
and so I certainly I'm interested in the
keys where if you could post actually
the issues in that repository which were
that you're actually working on so I'm
mostly doing signing JSON messages in a
particular format that before the that
good with the D ID spec and I think it's
publishing that on IP NS as a I P LD and
it's also there's still then that was
being blocked right now is the resolving
IP
LD objects within the window so I spoke
with Stephen about that when I met with
them out in Palo Alto it actually might
be going there back in Palo Alto in a
couple days so I might try to ping him
again just to see what the status of IPL
Diaz in resolving it you can do it
through the API a JSI PFS api nobody
can't publish it to IP and s and so I
think it's an ongoing issue mm-hmm got
it it's true especially because there is
some work on the record spec that then
will be the base for IP NS records in
DHT records
cool cool like stephenie's was actually
here I mean it ago I'll tell you just to
make sure thank you
all right next up we have Rob Rob give a
rejection update I don't know that it
necessarily have an update it was my
first time here just to introduce myself
I'm not necessarily working particularly
on Jos ipfs but I'm doing work with
protocol labs to help develop better
overview introductory technical
documentation that kind of connects all
the pieces of ipfs for people and so I
wanted to pop in here and get a sense of
how everybody's doing work and how that
connects in particular with the ongoing
work in this project and hopefully as
part of a result of this we can find
ways to encourage better documentation
practice code practices going forward
hopefully that's just like creating a
good architecture for you to all SWAT
things into but also you know what can
we do in the work process here it won't
make sure our documentation happens in
the future after I'm gone thank you
there is one issue that I'm not sure if
it is on your radar right now the
awesome endeavor IP fest accommodation
API recommendation and that is like a
work that we did last year on creating
the tooling to support automatic dog
generation from Jess Docs and so it is a
very large issue with
winters too many repos on like work that
is like often some of repos ever done
essentially we need a little bit more
direction there like just reevaluate if
that's still the right direction like in
the right tooling and if it is well we
need some help to get to the finish line
essentially awesome thank you I will
definitely dig through this yeah alright
next on my screen is Walker Walker do
you want to share a bit and I can take
notes for you well you sure you're
alright um yeah so um last week I've
been working on yes still getting up to
speed with the whole IPL D stuff and
yeah so I've kind of finished the chase
IPL the Bitcoin format implement
implementation at the C cash and I'm
currently blocked due to a de'vide
because he needs to review pull requests
so I can publish the C cash picnic on
NPM and next week I will again go
through the spec and the open issues and
just yeah
polish IPL D a bit yeah that's all
alright thank you make sure to post a
link to that pull request I think I know
what it is that I just wanna make sure I
look at the right one so that I can
unblock you as soon as possible also so
I know that you have been like working
on polishing all the IPL the code base
there are still some hiccups on using a
die a P I specially from the CLI because
of the changes that happen internally
that now this UI given enough tests
things kind of like change underneath
and now the TOI doesn't really work well
for all the formats is there are you
hoping to get some work done on the CLI
for Jessie BFS this week or yes this is
actually what I will work on if you are
saying it Irene
remember it this was my plan I will work
on that you can do it queries like path
queries on Bitcoin and G cash through
the IP e CH IP FSC like yeah so alright
thank you
okay we are one minute from our new or
it's already 10:35 do people want to
continue like usual so maybe five more
minutes okay cool
bitter I haven't worked on the
JavaScript project directly but what I'm
working on currently is to get all the
projects yes I mean Jenkins and then
eventually we can migrate away from
Travis and we can migrate away from
circle so everything gets a bit faster
the most important build right now is
for JSI PFS so die spending the the
windows fixes that I was on tour on how
to fix as well once we have that then we
can start doing or solid interrupt
testing between all the different
implementations and API clients and all
that stuff which I seen that Dimitri
suis yeah super excited for all that
work making tests so much faster small
requests while you are at it King King
can we just agree like remove Travis
from the equation as soon as possible
because it's a slow and can we also just
do coverage testing on circle because
right now we have the I know there is a
token management problem I like circle
coverage really well and its best so we
would have Jenkins to do all the tests
and then circle see I to where the
coverage chests and publish the results
to cover else I don't think now when I
did the the websites automation stuff we
have some secrets management and we are
not super careful maybe about the
for being able to upload like coverage
reports it's not like a supers security
hassle if people do that so we could do
the coverage report on Jenkins as well I
believe and then we can remove both
circle and Travis and then we will have
super fat pills awesome thank you
all right next up is Nick hi um yeah I'm
here
so during last week I've worked on this
test spec one interface interface IP FS
core also on the rep pool and I had the
mfsl spec I also implemented it on GSM
FS API and I think that's it anything
that you're blocked or that you are
hoping to get e-cig I think I'll start
to do the status spec implement start at
the stats interface on
gsfs because it's one of the things that
is needed for I guess desktop to work
with Jesus thank you cool next step
power source is listening okay sounds
good thank you
embedding support to Jess ipfs with
directory it is needed for ipfs
companion you wax issue that is right
now when you download the file it
doesn't support he when they use a lot
of the font of the browser he is there
she doesn't preserve the file name so
with this if we add this feature then
it's possible to in ipfs companion that
support to when the users on with the
file the directory will be the family
will be preserved
sometimes you get the extension that you
have there the content type right
awesome
thank you well I didn't hear you say any
blocker so I guess you are unblocked to
continue I just have some doubts right
now I mean I'm so I pay first companion
needs support uses j.jz b PF s api so it
implements the interface corner api and
right now i'm updating the tests going
BFS doesn't have any kind of
interference interface core support
right could you say the last five words
again go IPSS right now doesn't have any
core interface core support api yeah
quite EFS like from the girl programming
language no but like from Jessica's API
yes because it's the same thing so I'm
not sure if I understand your questions
but like if you want to host here links
to issues where you have a question so
that we can review and make sure you get
your questions answered thank you why
don't you are the last one here on my
screen alright yeah I know you're busy
with activists in web browsers were cool
so this is it we took ten minutes more
than what was planned but again we I
have all the warm-up which was pretty
much 20 minutes so I expect next week we
can do this maybe even 15 minutes
depending how many people show up one of
things happening we didn't get to review
what other critical issues that no one
is only let's make sure to do that next
week so that we we understand what the
priorities for the project right now any
any final remarks any questions any
comments
feels that they know what they need to
work on this week is it clear
all right cool thank you so much for
joining and yeah this was the first
disagree fest they have team core weekly
sync up full names and econo-mode
that's the model here enjoy your week
and see you again next Monday